Let's say you've been training with X3
for 6 months and you hit a plateau.
You're not getting any stronger. Doesn't
look like you're getting any bigger.
You're not making progress. You got to
ask yourself a couple questions. Are you
getting enough protein? About 95% of the
time, that's the problem. Reasons for
that might be you're taking in a lot of
vegetable protein. Keep in mind,
vegetable protein is only 9% usable by
the body. So, if you get a pea protein,
which is really popular right now for
some reason, you can have a couple
shakes throughout the day and get 100 g
of what you think is protein your body's
going to use. It's only going to use 9 g
out of that 100 g. So, it's not even
worth buying or mixing up. And in fact,
if somebody gave me a a can of u pea
protein, I would say thank you. And then
after they walked away, I would just
toss it in the trash. Like I I wouldn't
even bother. The sources of protein that
are good are obviously forgen. It's the
most efficient uh protein you can ever
find. Animal protein and uh now of
course when I say animal protein, I
think some people get confused. Um I do
eat more than red meat. So like turkey,
chicken, fish, like anything.
Um that's where you're going to get the
protein utilization. This is measured by
nitrogen waste. So we can tell what
proteins are efficient that we ingest
because we can see what what we urinate
out. And sometimes there's a lot a lot
of foam in your urine. That means
there's a lot of nitrogen waste. It's
not necessarily a bad thing uh because
there's always waste when you have like
a lot of protein. So if you have like a
huge steak for dinner and then you know
you go to go to urinate before you go to
bed and then all of a sudden you're like
wow my my urine looks like beer. It's
like really got a lot of foam in it.
Well 38% usability is really what steak
is. So you're going to have some waste
there. So just so you know what that
looks like. but you're using quite a bit
of it. And also don't worry too much
about the waste because the the studies
that are done on minimum protein amounts
don't look at the nitrogen waste.
Nitrogen waste studies look at nitrogen
waste. So, it's really hard to like
dovetail the two to find the perfect
amount of protein that you need. Uh just
the the guideline is one gram per pound
of body weight. I know there have been
some studies that um suggests quite a
bit less is required but um you won't
grow if you try to do that and I think
part of the problem with those studies
is these are all done by people
who are the subjects the the objective
is determining the minimum amount of
protein. These people aren't athletic in
any way and they're not doing any
exercise and they're also not trying to
keep body fat low.
So you got to keep in mind when you when
you look at a study like what are they
trying to prove and who did they pick
for the subjects and what are the
methods all those things count and if
you just pick one variable out of a
study you're you might be missing out on
quite a